Checkgroups message for aus.*
-----------------------------

$Revision$
$Date$

Last update: 1998-04-18 - lots of corrections to the previous list:
group names added:
	aus.ads.forsale.computers.new		aus.net.irc
	aus.ads.forsale.computers.used		aus.org.awpa
	aus.ads.jobs.moderated			aus.org.hisa
	aus.ads.jobs.resumes			aus.org.rmaa
	aus.ads.personals			aus.org.scouting
	aus.censorship				aus.politics.guns
	aus.comms.mobile			aus.radio.scanner
	aus.culture.hellenic			aus.radio.showprep
	aus.dvd					aus.transport
	aus.legal.moderated			aus.tv.pay
	aus.media-watch

group names removed:
	aus.ads.forsale.computers		aus.education.rpl
	aus.archives				aus.net.directory.osi-ds
	aus.aswec				aus.net.directory.quipu
	aus.comms.fps				aus.sex
	aus.education.npit

Previous update: 1995-12-06 - added aus.test
		

1. What's a checkgroups message?
   -----------------------------

A checkgroups message is a control message like a newgroup or an
rmgroup; it helps you administer your active and newsgroups files.
Specifically, it supplies a definitive list of the newsgroups that you
should be carrying.

A checkgroups that lists all the currently valid groups in the aus.*
namespace is posted every week to every site in the aus distribution.
By the time you read this, that message will have arrived at your
site. *This* message is just a listing of the newsgroups in that
control message.


2. What happens when my site receives a checkgroups message?
   ---------------------------------------------------------

That depends on your software, and how it's configured. The default
behaviour for INN is to mail a list to your news adminsitrator,
showing which groups are to be added, and which are to be removed. The
list is in a form that can be fed directly into /bin/sh to perform the
changes.

It is also possible to configure your news software to do the changes
immediately, if it has been sent from a specific email address. By
default, INN is configured to respond to checkgroups message from
Robert Elz <kre@munnari.OZ.AU> and/or Phil Herring <revdoc@uow.edu.au>.
However, these gentlemen no longer maintain the master aus.* newsgroup list
and so you should remove their addresses and add the permanent address
<news@aus.news-admin.org> for processing of newgroup/rmgroup/checkgroups
messages.


3. What if I want to synch my active and newsgroups files right away?
   ------------------------------------------------------------------

If required, you can apply this checkgroups as follows: remove
everything below here, then feed it into sh while logged on as 'news'.
You may have to change the path shown.

----------------------- CUT HERE ------------------------------------------
/usr/local/news/bin/control/docheckgroups <<!
aus.ads.commercial		Commercial advertisements.
aus.ads.forsale			Items for sale (no commercial ads).
aus.ads.forsale.computers.new	Advertisements for new computer hardware
aus.ads.forsale.computers.used	Advertisements for used or second hand
aus.ads.jobs			Jobs, wanted and available.
aus.ads.jobs.moderated		Australian jobs available (Moderated)
aus.ads.jobs.resumes		Australian resumes.
aus.ads.personals		People seeking people.
aus.ads.wanted			Items wanted (no commercial ads).
aus.aviation			Planes, gliders, flying, etc.
aus.aviation.airspace		Airspace Design and Management in Australia.
aus.bicycle			Push bikes.
aus.books			Australian discussion of books.
aus.bushwalking			Bushwalking, hiking, and other outdoor activities.
aus.cars			Petrol heads.
aus.censorship			Censorship in Australia.
aus.comms			Discussion about communications in general.
aus.comms.mobile		Mobile communications in Australia.
aus.comms.videocon		Videoconferencing - compressed video.
aus.computers			Misc computer types.
aus.computers.ai		AI discussions.
aus.computers.amiga		Discussions about Commodore Amiga computers.
aus.computers.cdrom		CD-ROM
aus.computers.ibm-pc		Discussions about the IBM pc & clones.
aus.computers.linux		The Linux operating system.
aus.computers.logic-prog	Logic Programming.
aus.computers.mac		Macintosh computers and software.
aus.computers.os2		The OS/2 operating system.
aus.computers.parallel		Parallel computing.
aus.computers.sun		Sun computers and software.
aus.computers.tex		The Tex typesetting system.
aus.consumers			Consumer Products/Services in Australia
aus.culture.china		soc.culture.china redistributed.
aus.culture.hellenic		Hellenic culture in Australia.
aus.culture.gothic		The Gothic subculture in Australia
aus.culture.lesbigay		Gay and bisexual life.
aus.culture.ultimo		Inner-city life.
aus.dvd				Digital Versatile Disk in Australia.
aus.education			Helping educators in Australia.
aus.education.bio-newtech	New Technologies in Biology Teaching.
aus.education.open-learning	The Open Learning program.
aus.electronics			Electronics hobbyists and engineers.
aus.environment.conservation	Information and discussion of conservation issues.
aus.environment.misc		Miscellaneous environmental issues.
aus.films			Movies, Cinema, TV.
aus.flame			Abusive noise, posted by morons.
aus.flame.gareth-powell		Australia's favourite computer journalist.
aus.flame.usa			Careful, reasoned criticism of the United States of America.
aus.foodtech			Food technology.
aus.games			Discussions of games.
aus.games.bridge		The game of bridge.
aus.games.roleplay		Discussions of role playing games.
aus.gardens			Gardens and gardening in Australia.
aus.general			General information, announcements, etc.
aus.hi-fi			Hi Fi Issues.
aus.invest			Investment and other financial matters.
aus.jokes			Jokes, humour, and boring trivia.
aus.legal			Legal issues.
aus.legal.moderated		A moderated Australian and New Zealand legal group. (Moderated)
aus.mathematics			Mathematics teaching and research.
aus.mbio			Molecular biology.
aus.media-watch			Embittered, pompous gits of the net, unite!
aus.motorcycles			Discussion of motorcycles and motorcycling.
aus.music			Music and related issues.
aus.net.access			Internet access.
aus.net.announce		Announcements of resources available on the net.
aus.net.directory		For the discussion of the X.500 Directory.
aus.net.irc			Internet Relay Chat in Australia.
aus.net.mail			Mail systems, addressinc, &c.
aus.net.news			The news system.
aus.net.policy			Discussion of all aspects of Australian Internet policy
aus.net.status			Status of local & international net links.
aus.org.acs			The Australian Computer Society.
aus.org.acs.books		The Australian Computer Society book reviews.
aus.org.auug			AUUG Inc - Australian Unix User Group.
aus.org.awpa			Australasian Web Publishers' Association, Inc.
aus.org.efa			The Electronic Frontier Australia.
aus.org.hisa			Health Informatics Association of Australia related matters.
aus.org.rmaa			Records Management Association of Australia related matters.
aus.org.sage			The System Administrator's Guild.
aus.org.scouting		Scouting in Australia
aus.org.waia			Discussion forum for the W.A. Internet Association.
aus.personals			Personal ads.
aus.pets			Australasian pet owners, and their pets.
aus.photo			Photography, video, etc.
aus.politics			Politics, debates, rational(?) arguments.
aus.politics.guns		Gun control in Australia
aus.radio.amateur.digital	Digital techniques (packet etc) in Amateur Radio.
aus.radio.amateur.misc		Amateur Radio.
aus.radio.amateur.wicen		Wireless Institute Civil Emergency Network.
aus.radio.broadcast		Australian broadcast radio.
aus.radio.scanner		Scanner frequency tips & tricks for Monitoring In Aust.
aus.radio.showprep		Show preparation for on-air professionals.
aus.rail			Railways and trains, both actual and model.
aus.rail.models			Model railways and trains.
aus.religion			Discussions of, or related to, religions.
aus.religion.christian		Christianity and issues relevant to Christianity
aus.sf				Australian discussion of SF&F literature, media, fandom.
aus.sf.babylon5			The TV series _Babylon 5_.
aus.sf.star-trek		_Star Trek_, old and new.
aus.snow			Winter sports in Australia.
aus.sport			Generic discussions of sport.
aus.sport.aussie-rules		Australian rules football.
aus.sport.motor			Motor sports.
aus.sport.rugby-league		Rugby league football.
aus.sport.scuba			Scuba diving.
aus.stats.s			Discussions of the S data analysis & graphics software.
aus.students			Going to school in Australia.
aus.students.overseas		Australian students abroad, students from abroad in Australia.
aus.talk.ltuae			Life, The Universe, And Everything.
aus.test			Test messages.
aus.theatre			The theatre.
aus.transport			Transportation infrastructure and vehicles.
aus.tv				Television.
aus.tv.community		Community television.
aus.tv.pay			General discussion of pay television within Australia.
aus.tv.x-files			Discussion of "X-Files" and related subjects.
!
